Okay, so
let's move on to make our color bars, and
that is going to start with a gradient.
So here in our instructions, so
we are still in Chapter 4.
We are down now on Part 3, which is
called adding lines in between sections.
So how do we get this cool gradient?
They look like borders, don't they?
So my first approach to this was
to try using the border property,
but you need to have
a gradient associated with it.
So the regular old border property
will let you assign a color to it.
So I can make a one
pixel solid red border.
That's straightforward enough to do.
But to implement a gradient, you can
use a property called border-image.
And that will allow you
to plug in a gradient.
Unfortunately, it works great in Firefox,
it works great in Chrome.
But in Safari it will not put
it on one side of your element,
it will put it on all four sides.
So in other words,
you'll wind up with a box of gradient
as opposed to a line of gradient.
So the way I wound up having to
solve this was to use a div,
create my gradient, and
set that as the background for that div.
And then give it a very small height so
that it looks like a line.
That was the solution that I came up with
that wound up working across browsers.
So the first step in that process
is to generate the gradient.
And there are lots of websites you
can go to to generate a CSS gradient,
but I've chosen cssgradient.io.
If you have another site you like,
feel free to use it.
And here what we're going to
do is generate a gradient.
And I've given you the two colors
that this particular gradient uses.
You're welcome to choose other colors,
if you like.
So I think this one is
the pinkish magenta color.
So let's just plug that in,
copy, paste there.
And then we have another color here.
This is the aqua color,
copy and paste it there.
Okay, so
the way this particular website works,
it's gonna show you what the gradient
looks like up here at the top of the page.
So right now what we have
going on is a radial gradient.
So it's actually more of a circle.
Your mileage may vary, by the way.
I use this site a lot, and
I was creating a radial gradient for
something else a little while ago.
I'm gonna switch it back over to linear.
Linear is gonna treat it,
obviously, more like a line.
And we have two color stops here.
We have one at 35, so, in other words make
it solid magenta until we get to the 35,
which is just sort of a number on
a scale of 1 to 100 or 0 to 100.
Then between 35 and 68,
we're gonna make the gradient happen,
go from one color to the other.
And then 68 and higher,
we're gonna make it all the aqua color.
I actually don't want that.
So we can just slide these points all
the way out to the end, 0 and 100.
And then the last part
of this is the angle.
So down here in the interface,
it says 353 degrees, which is great.
What I actually want,
though, is 90 degrees.
The reason I want it at 90 degrees is
because I have a very narrow height and
I want to have my color bar go
from pink to aqua on the page.
And I want the whole
gradient to be visible.
If I do a very small height and
I have a funky line going on,
who knows how much of the gradient is
actually gonna show up inside of that?
All right, so once you have set this up,
this will give you the CSS
down here at the bottom.
So it's giving you two lines of CSS.
One line is just a solid color.
That's a fallback for
older browsers that may not be
able to implement a CSS gradient.
My understanding is that most browsers are
pretty good at CSS gradients at this point
in time.
So I am just gonna copy this
second line of code here.
And that is the code for the gradient that
we just created there in the interface.
Okay, so we'll copy that line of code.
And we will go over
here to our styles.css.
And I'm gonna scroll back
on up in my style sheet,
back where it says background color divs.
It's probably a good place to
put it to keep things organized.
And I am going to create
a class called gradient.
Cuz like I said,
I'm super creative that way.
I'm gonna give the gradient that thing
that I just copied from the color gradient
website.
And I'm gonna assign out
a height of 2 pixels, okay?
So a div with a class of gradient is
gonna have a height of 2 pixels and
it will have that gradient
associated with it.
And then all I have to do,
after I save my CSS,
is drop in those divs into my document.
So where are those color
gradient lines gonna go?
They are going to go after the navigation,
after the intro.
So here, between the intro and
the contact, we'll add a div here.
Class=gradient /div, okay?
Why div?
Because we want a block level element that
will stretch all the way across the page.
And div is meaningless.
There's no semantic value
associated with a div.
It's gonna go in here.
Its whole purpose in life
is to hold that class and
to be 2 pixels size so
it'll look cool, that's it.
All right, so, I'm gonna copy that.
And before I go crazy and
put all of them in,
let's just take a quick
peek at our webpage.
So make sure your CSS and
your HTML are saved.
And refresh your web page, and you should
have a cool gradient line showing up
here now in between your introduction and
your contact.
All right, so let's add the last one and
that's gonna go in between
your contact and your footer.
So we'll drop in another div with
a class of gradient right there.
And I think that's all of
the ones we have at the moment.
So either side of the contact, basically.
I mean,
this webpage is almost done, right?
All that's left is the hard part.
You're doing great.